Oh, it's great to see the
room full like this.
If you were here for
the session last year,
it had gotten moved four times,
from like a Wednesday to a
Thursday to a Friday to back to a
Thursday and then back to a Friday.
We had a smaller room,
and we had standing room only.
And so it really,
really warms my heart in the enterprise
track and the admin side of OS X to
be seeing this many people in this
room interested in this stuff.
So thank you very much
for coming for this.
Thank you.
Last year we covered three different
kinds of scripts in one hour.
This year we're covering four.
So guaranteed 25% new material.
If you were here at the
last year's session,
you definitely have 25% more.
Last year we talked a little bit
about how to choose a language,
a little bit more about how the
different pieces fit together.
This year I want to talk about
getting started with scripting and
actually getting motivated about it.
So to that end,
we've got two people coming up here
and I asked them to do some things
that they hadn't done before to kind
of get into that feeling of stuff.
So, AppleScript and UNIX Scripting
for System Administrators.
Who's a system administrator?
That's beautiful.
That's good.
Alright, so good,
you're in the right place.
That's me, Joel Rennich,
Consulting Engineer for the
Enterprise Consulting Services.
You might also know a little website
that I run with some other folks.
We'll talk about that maybe
a little bit in the end.
Save the applause for the end, thanks.
So, let's get, why are they giving me the
heterogeneous network slides?
Okay.
All right.
Introduction to scripting in OS X.
So a little bit of the stuff
that we're going to talk about,
some script options that you have.
Again, AppleScript, shell, Perl,
and Python.
So we picked up another P.
Who was at the Python session?
All right, good.
We're not going to teach you Python.
We're just going to do some
sexy cool stuff with it.
All right.
And why you're here, right,
is lots of cool demo scripts.
As fun and exciting as the slides are,
actually showing real-life code,
doing real-life things,
doing things that make your life easier,
that gets you napping at
2:30 in the afternoon because
life is so good and easy,
right?
So what script?
To that end, there's a lot of scripting
languages out there.
Especially if you're new to scripting,
you're going to get
overwhelmed by a lot of this.
This is all the stuff in
10.4 that we ship with.
Notice now there's KSH fans.
All right, yeah, but definitely,
definitely if you're coming
from Solaris or whatever else,
do a lot of KSH work,
we now have KSH here.
So that's killer.
That's one of the big changes
in 10.4 that we took from 10.3.
All right, so new to that.
A bunch more that we don't have built in,
but you're more than
welcome to put it in.
So a sea of options that are out there.
We talked a little bit last year
about picking a scripting language.
Still similar ideas here.
What I wanted to do when we go
through some of these demos,
we took a common element,
that of creating your own
software update server,
and we've written that in
three different languages.
One person never touched
Python until a month and a half ago,
and I said, "Hey,
why don't you learn Python for me because
I'm on the plane a lot and it hasn't
been very successful for me to pick
it up." So I want you to learn Python.
I want you to tell me how you can
replicate what we've already done in
shell and what we've already kind of done
in AppleScript and enable that in Python,
and what's the difference between
picking scripting languages.
All right, so we'll definitely speak to
a lot of that as we go through
these demos and talk about how
you can pick the best scripting
language for what you want to do.
The end result of all this,
if you read the bullets up here,
does the script do what you need?
Can you know how to program in it?
Is it going to accomplish something?
Once you get past that,
the actual scripting
language is almost secondary,
at least in my opinion.
All right, we're admins.
Beauty is in the eye of the coder.
All right?
You want it to do something,
you want it to work.
If it fits those goals,
it's a good scripting language for you.
It's a good script.
Don't have to defend scripting.
I think maybe early on in OS X we did.
People weren't used to
writing their own stuff,
admins.
In the OS 9 timeframe,
if you weren't an AppleScript developer,
if you weren't an AppleScript coder,
you probably just sat there and
took things as they came your way.
Joel Rennich, If OS 9 couldn't do this,
that's okay.
I'll find another application.
I'll wait until someone
makes an application,
or I'll just, I'm not going to do that.
And hopefully now,
nobody here as an admin takes that, okay?
Joel Rennich, If you run into something
that you can't do,
you write a script to fix it.
If you run into something that you
have to do over and over again,
you write a script to fix it, all right?
Joel Rennich, That's what scripting is.
That's what we have the power of
all these different languages and
all these different things to do.
Joel Rennich, And that's really what
I like out of scripting.
It's not just a hack job.
It's not a replacement
for network admins.
It's not always fast.
Nobody ever writes scripts to be
the fastest thing on the block,
all right?
Joel Rennich,
Compiled applications are always going
to be faster because they're compiled.
But scripts are easy to write.
Who writes C?
That's not a bad one.
That's a little more
than I was expecting.
All right.
Fair enough.
So definitely you can
go with that option.
How to start scripting.
Maybe your hands are getting tired,
but who's never scripted before?
Wow, that's cool.
There was about five people.
That's very cool.
Very cool that we've got that many people
doing this many good scripts on there.
If you're new to it, right,
what was the first,
how did you start scripting?
You had a problem.
You had a problem that
you didn't want to do.
you were tired of doing.
You had a problem that annoyed you.
And that's probably when
you wrote your first script.
Once you got that first one going,
it was a very steep, slippery slope.
And probably now you spend more
time looking for problems that
you can script your way out of.
That certainly is an issue I have.
Oh man, that almost works.
I don't have any reason for it,
but that's a beautiful line of code
that I could just do something with.
So definitely that's the way to start
scripting if you haven't already,
is to get a problem.
Get a script.
The gateway drugs are
AppleScript and Shell,
right?
We give those away for free.
You just go back into your terminal
history and you've got a Shell script.
You hit the record button or you
just start talking about some stuff
and you've got an AppleScript.
That's the gateway drugs.
Then from there, maybe you move to Perl,
maybe you move to Python,
maybe you move to any one of the other
ones that we talked about before.
Tools, we use a handful of
different tools up here.
My personal favorite is SubEther Edit,
if anybody is here from Coding Monkeys.
Well, they already know how to script,
I guess.
All right.
Well, thank you guys for SubEther Edit.
It's my personal favorite.
I use it a lot.
But we also have a big fan of
the BB Edit and Text Wrangler.
Andrina's coming up here to do Python.
She's using that.
Might talk a little bit to
that and how she likes it.
Of course, TextEdit, right?
Yay, text edit.
Text edit,
all you need to write is script.
Okay?
Then we've got some AppleScript tools,
Script Debugger, FacePan,
those kinds of things.
There's a couple other
development environments.
Xcode, of course,
we're going to show you an
AppleScript Studio app written from
scratch as we go through there.
And finally, as you get around to
getting into scripting,
you should never have to write
all your code from scratch.
There is so much code out there.
Now that you've got Spotlight,
I've got a folder full of code snippets,
probably a couple hundred
different text files.
I really like Spotlight because
I can put something in that,
and I can search just that folder,
and I can find when
I've used this utility,
I can find when I've used that
little bit of code before,
and then I just cut and paste.
I almost get coder's block sometimes
when you open up that blank window.
You're like, "Oh man,
I've got to start." Where do you start?
This is so daunting.
I'm going to end up with a couple
hundred lines of code when I'm done.
You don't have to worry about that.
So use the examples,
use the scripts that you already have.
All the scripts that
we're going to do here,
we're going to post on AFP 548,
so you're going to get them onto there.
Since it was such a collection
of different scripts,
thank you, thank you.
It was such a collection of different
scripts from different areas,
we couldn't really easily
get them through legal in
time to get put on the DMG.
Alright, so, pick them up from the site.
AppleScript, I want to hit real quick.
There's one or two new things,
and I want to highlight
one or two new things that,
for the AppleScript that I do,
is very important,
allows us to do a lot more functionality.
And then we've got Josh that's going
to come up here and create something
useful in 15 minutes or less,
hopefully geared towards admins.
AppleScript,
start off language control other apps,
fully functional in its own right,
been around since OS 7.
We all know this.
Advantages to AppleScript is
the big thing is the GUI.
There's now other ways of
getting Python and Perl and
even shell script into GUIs,
but by far the easiest is by
going through AppleScript or
an AppleScript Studio app.
By far the easiest to
get through all that.
It's probably easy to pick up.
Who started with AppleScript?
Probably about a third of the audience
here started with AppleScript.
And once you got to AppleScript,
you started getting
exciting about scripting.
You started learning those techniques,
that basic logic,
and then you moved your way on to
some of the more advanced stuff if you
outgrew AppleScript in certain areas.
So AppleScript Studio is cool, very cool.
Disadvantages, spoken English syntax,
right?
Who's gotten confused by
AppleScript that they wrote 10 years ago,
tried to go back to read it and just was,
"Oh my." So that goes back to
commenting and making sure you
have clean code to begin with.
But definitely AppleScript can
get a little wordy in there,
single-threaded,
and it's only on the Mac.
All right?
That statement has changed a
lot in the last couple days,
I think.
But AppleScript's only on the Mac.
So if you want to write AppleScript,
you have to deploy on the OS X on Mac.
All right?
Here's a sample AppleScript,
really quick and cheesy.
If you've written AppleScript before,
you see what this does.
Checks the file size or your
free space on your drive,
says something, displays an alert,
that kind of stuff.
All right?
Shows you how easy and simple
it is to get into AppleScript.
It's just like speaking.
The problem is you get used to
that and then you want to say,
"Computer."
Get the coffee, answer all the email,
fix all the help desk issues,
and then put me in for
a tea time at 4:00.
So can't get that.
What I want to do now
is who's used PW Policy?
[Transcript missing]
Thank you, Joel.
I know Joel asked about who
was here that was a sysadmin.
How many people here are--
I know this is in the IT track,
but how many people are enterprise
versus developers in here?
Oh, good.
So understanding that
outside of this room,
probably, most people say enterprise
equals Microsoft,
how many people have to
deal with Exchange at work?
Oh, good.
And you love Entourage, right?
Okay.
We have to deal with Entourage at work,
and so I've got a couple of different
scripts we've developed for Entourage
to lead into our AppleScripting here.
There were a couple of things
we noticed about Entourage
that didn't work real well.
It did not -- no, and I like Entourage,
sorry.
It does not archive calendar
items out of your calendar and
blows out your storage quotas,
and it doesn't follow servers
if servers ever change.
We've got about 20
Exchange servers at work,
and if they remove a
user to another server,
Entourage just loses its mind.
It's a perfect example for AppleScript.
And is there anyone from
Apple here on the AppleScript team?
Script editing editor team?
No?
Oh, yes, because -- okay, more people.
You've done something beautiful
in AppleScript editor in 10.4,
and that's you've reworked how we
get to look at our dictionaries.
And now we have this
wonderful-looking interface,
and I just would really like to
say thank you for doing that.
The first times we ever used
AppleScript back on OS 7 and 8 and 9,
we didn't have a shell to push around,
so AppleScript pretty much exclusively
pushed around other applications.
You'd tell, hey, Finder, do this,
and hey, Word, do this, and hey, Excel,
do this.
So this first script,
of course my comments,
a boss entourage around,
and what this script does is very
simply it looks through a calendar,
and it takes anything that is
a non-repeating item in your
Exchange calendar that is older than 30
days and marks it to an archive status,
and then you tell
entourage not to archive,
not to synchronize that status,
and it builds a 30-day
dropping off the server,
and it turns basically
into a personal calendar,
which is something you can't do
in entourage normally because
you only have one calendar.
This way the events stay
in the user's calendars,
they're removed from the Exchange server,
the Exchange admins are happy,
the users are happy,
and they don't have to think about it
because you just tell it run every day,
and it automatically rolls
these things off their calendar.
Looking at it very easily,
this one is just AppleScript,
and entourage has a little
bit of a funny dictionary,
and I will say that Microsoft's
news groups are very good for
getting troubleshooting information,
especially on scripting with their apps,
and just to take an
easy look at this one,
we see the basic language of AppleScript,
tell application,
and you actually name an application,
and AppleScript gets really wordy,
it is a very natural language.
This is a very natural language.
which does lead to lots of
tell the app of the window,
of the hard drive, of the folder,
and you get these things
that go on and on and on.
But--so this is just
a very simple script,
and Entourage is not on here,
so I'm just gonna show
you it a little bit.
You get to weird things
sometimes in apps.
For some reason, Entourage,
you have to stick these-- sometimes
stick another tell in there that
doesn't actually do anything to
kind of wake it up to keep it going.
And then AppleScript has some
nice ways to handle dates now.
If the date comes
before the current date,
-31, so it just easily is a nice way
to calculate out one month ago.
So we've deployed this
script out with Entourage,
which actually has very
nice script support.
If you see the slash CA on the end,
that adds a keyboard
shortcut in a Microsoft app,
so then users can hit Control-A and
archive their calendar anytime they want.
A bigger problem for us with Entourage
was the fact that if a server changed,
it did not refresh the server,
and they move users around
servers sometimes for
maintenance or other reasons.
So this is an example of doShellScript.
So doShellScript is a nice new thing
we got in OS X with AppleScript,
and what it allows us to do is send
a command through to the shell.
We get a response back from
the shell as text generally,
and then we can use that.
So here it's very simple.
You just enter in
So, this is your domains and
variables here at the top,
and this assumes you're using
the AD plugin from Apple,
and then it basically uses Discl and it
goes out and it looks at the username.
And then it just looks
at the current user.
And then what it does is it determines
where their home server is for exchange.
And then it bosses Entourage around
and changes the free/busy and it
changes the exchange server settings
of their account to be able --
of the last exchange account.
And it changes it to be able to follow
the server then when things move.
The first time in our Macintosh group
that they moved some servers after
they had started using Entourage,
there was this flood of support tickets
in the morning because about 15 people
could not find anything in Entourage.
It was all gone.
And so panic sets in.
They're designers.
They start rioting and running around
with pitchforks and things like that.
So that's an easy example.
Do Shell Script can be very simple.
This Do Shell Script is one shot.
It's one big, long, piped-up,
ugly-said command and a display.
And then you have the disk command.
So I hate -- I'm not very good a
lot of times with the said commands.
So mine look ugly.
If people in here probably looking at it,
they're like, "Ah,
he could have done that one step." But,
you know, it works.
Then you can also mix actual shell
scripts with the do script command.
So here I've got another one
that you put a script in there,
and you just put this shell
script anywhere in your system.
The shell script itself
is very ugly as well,
but basically what it does is it
looks at your AD domain and looks
for the LDAP service records,
and then returns all
your LDAP information,
ping sorts it by response time,
and then you pick a fast
one off the top of the list.
We have another issue where they
tend to like to upgrade LDAP servers
during the day and things.
They don't realize
Outlook on a PC just goes,
oh, I'll use a different one.
But on the Mac it's all hard-coded into
the exchange settings of Entourage.
So this one calls a shell script,
which actually writes to a temp file.
And then this goes through,
and because I was exceedingly lazy,
and it puts dead servers at the
top that have zero response time,
because sort considers
that a lower number,
I just take the fifth one
off the top of the list.
Scripting isn't always about
doing everything in exactly
the best way possible,
but this works really, really well.
We've never had more than two dead
LDAP servers at any given time,
so I went ahead and told it five.
Play it safe.
I can roll this out to my users.
Now,
I don't get a support desk call when all
of a sudden the LDAP server freaks out.
Their own little help desk
people down there can say,
oh yeah, hit control R,
and it'll refresh your LDAP script.
So those are just some basic examples
of just really easy AppleScript.
The other stuff that I want
to talk about here is--
AppleScript Studio.
And in this case,
we're going to actually build something.
If you came-- Joel and I were
out here in January and we did an
AppleScript Studio session and we
came up with this nifty little app.
called PolicyMaker.
PolicyMaker is a front end to PWPolicy,
and it allows you to simply
set some password policies.
PWPolicy picked up a lot
of nice features in 10.4.
It can now pretty much do anything
on a local user as you could do on a
password server user on an OS 10 server.
So because of that,
we can sit there and set things
like maximum filled logins.
And one of the nice new flags it
picked up in 10.4 is an enable user,
so that if a user has hit these
policies and become disabled,
you can actually use PWPolicy
to re-enable the user.
And what you can do with this is you can
create a little AppleScript Studio app
that's extremely simple that you
can give to help desk people.
So you don't have to give them
Work Group Manager or access to
Work Group Manager so they can
go in and re-enable something.
This way, you can just have them
open up a little box,
type in the username,
and click an unlock button,
and it will unlock the user account.
So we're going to go through.
We're going to give--
a user here a policy.
Maxman Feld Logins.
So that's two.
How about that?
Okay.
So now if we come to the command line
and we try to switch to that tech user,
we can see that he works
unless he's already logged.
Okay.
You know what?
We're going to reset his
password very quickly here.
Okay, now we're ready to go.
So we can SU to him.
Right?
And we've set up a policy though,
so if he botches his
password a couple times,
Now he cannot log in.
He's locked out of his account,
as he should be.
So using the pwpolicy command,
We can start to look
at ways to unlock him.
And just when you write an
AppleScript Studio app and you
do anything but do shell script,
what you need to do is start
looking at what the options
and flags and commands are.
So I can see here that I want
to use an enable user command,
which is right here.
I can see that I need to
specify an authenticator and
a password for the domain,
which you can then obfuscate
inside when you do a deployment
build of your scripting.
And I can also see that I can
specify a directory node here,
but if you don't do anything,
it's just going to go down the
search list in directory access.
So I can figure out really
easily that I can use a PWPolicy
command that looks like that.
Demo admin, unlock, user tech,
enable user.
And then very easily,
that allows me to re-enable
text account.
So wouldn't it be nice
though if I didn't have to A,
hand out a password and mess with
the Etsy authorization and make this
neutered admin that can do that.
And I don't have to tell people
to go to the command line
and say type in PW policy.
If you guys have helper monkeys,
you know that's not going to work.
So what we like to do is be
able to do it in AppleScript.
AppleScript Studio,
and one of the most important things
about AppleScript Studio apps is
giving them nice pithy little names.
So we'll call it Keymaster.
And it builds a little app here.
This is just standard-looking stuff.
You can see inside under Resources the
AppleScript Kit Dictionary.
So if you ever need a reference
when you're looking at building
your AppleScript stuff,
you don't have to keep
flipping back to a PDF.
They actually just stick it in
every single AppleScript project as
another resource you can look at.
We've got our basic script here,
which currently has nothing in it.
And where we want to
start is with our nib.
So I'm going to open up Main Menu here.
That's fine.
And so now I've got my little nib here.
And the first thing I like to do is--
is come in, and I'd like to give this the
name that matches our application.
I'll take out some things.
We know we're never going to need
a window menu in this application.
a file menu in this application.
I want the window to match the same name.
And then there's something important
that I have to do for AppleScript Studio.
AppleScript Studio will not
look for that window title.
It has no clue about what that is.
And one of the things I really hate
in Xcode is that this list changes.
Have you noticed that?
Sometimes AppleScript will be command 7,
sometimes it'll be command 8.
This time it's command 9,
which I've never actually
seen it be before.
So if anyone can figure out
what's going on with that,
it'd be nice.
And I have an important thing
to tell you that I've discovered
about the Intel stuff with
AppleScript Studio that we'll get to.
But here,
I need to give it an AppleScript name.
And I'm going to go with "Main"
because that's a good generic name.
So now I can use AppleScript Studio to
call that window by its name of
"Main." I'm going to need to change
a couple things about this window.
I don't want them to resize it.
And then I need some
little widgets and do-bobs.
I need a button.
I'm going to go ahead and
make this smaller because it
doesn't need to be that large.
So there's a button,
we'll call it unlock.
And then I find if you give
these things really easy names,
we'll call this one button.
That one's kind of hard to miss.
And then we've got just
other simple things.
We'll drag in a text field
for the put the username in.
We'll call this one--
call this one username.
How about that?
Just some font text here.
And notice how I get all my--
you guys have seen Xcode.
You get all your-- the metrics and
everything get laid out for you.
Say, enter user's short name.
And then I want to take another
one here because I like to give
status text to my applications.
One of my big pet peeves about
apps are apps that don't actually
tell you when they're doing things
or reply that something happened.
I need to know whether something
was successful or something was not
successful and things like that.
And in this case, PWPolicy is going
different information.
Like if I click on it
and it's not disabled,
it tells me, hey,
that user is not disabled.
And I've found out that
that's the longest reply I'm
going to get from PwPolicy.
So I can select that.
Go back to Interface Builder,
paste that in here, and then I can size
this box based on that.
Okay, so I'll save my nib and then
I can run it right there.
Check it.
I do want to make that
button the default button.
So if I give it the return,
and Interface Builder is
absolutely wonderful to use.
So now I've got this actually
functioning little interface,
but it's not hooked up to anything yet.
So the way I do that is I go back
into AppleScript and I set up a
handler when the button is clicked.
And I've taken fonts off this machine.
Normally this will show up down here.
If you pull some of the key
Apple system fonts out of a machine,
then AppleScript Studio will freak
out and it will not show things here.
So let me try the other
version of Xcode on here.
Let me see if I can
open up a pre-made one.
How about that?
[Transcript missing]
So if we look back at our nib,
if this was functioning in a way-- oh,
there it is.
OK, good.
Notice that this time
AppleScript is number eight.
I can come in here and
I can click on this script.
This is the script that this
button handler is tied to.
Click Edit and now it starts
my little script for me.
On clicked the object,
add your script here.
So let's start adding our script in.
After we finish our nib, username,
and that needs to be...
Status Text.
Like I said, easy names make it easy
to remember everything.
So the first thing we wanted to do
is we want to figure out what the
name of the user is in that field.
So since I'm nice about this and I've
written stuff that I have no clue
how it works five or six years later,
I'm going to comment the code.
Get the username.
And here right away,
we're going to start seeing
the wordiness of AppleScript.
So it's tell window main.
And I'll make a variable just the user.
So set the user to
contents of text field.
And then we use our
AppleScript name we put in.
Can you guys see that?
Is that big enough?
I just noticed that.
Let's try this one more time.
Get out of there.
Fonts.
288 would be good,
but it's not going to let us see that.
Which is the command for that?
Anyone remember off
the top of their head?
Option +.
Thankfully, Apple has some stuff
to help us with this.
Zoom on.
And that would be Command Option Minus.
Which, of course, that's going crazy on.
How's that?
Okay,
now as long as I don't touch the mouse,
we'll be okay.
Because I'm using a GUI scripting tool.
So we'll set the user main to the
contents of the text field username.
And that just looks back at
whatever's in that field.
So we've now set that,
and we need to attempt
to unlock our user.
And we just put another comment in there.
And we need a little
bit of error handling.
So if the username is equal to nothing,
I need a what?
Double dash in there?
Oh, thank you.
There we go.
See, the machines start blowing
up and things go crazy.
Thank you very much.
So if the user is equal to nothing,
then-- and here we'll
start calling that text,
that status text field.
So contents of text field.
[Transcript missing]
And this is where we go
into our PW Policy stuff.
So we're going to set the
contents of the text field
Status text to do shell script.
And here's where a little trick comes in.
Ooh.
Now I need to make that smaller.
So I've got my PWPolicy command here,
right?
So what I want to do is
just select this guy.
Is everyone dizzy yet?
To do shell script,
and we just quote out our shell scripts,
and it will, tab it in.
And then what I do is I'm
going to go and take that user,
the user tech, that's the part that I'm
pulling from my variable,
I want to just replace it.
So I delete it, I end the quote, and...
The user and another quote.
And then I probably need to
put a quote on the very end.
I already did that.
So you just take your stuff
right out of the shell,
and you just paste it in here,
and then you comment
out what you need to do.
AppleScript does get really
weird with a bunch of different
escaping going on sometimes.
So you have to make sure that
everything is escaped properly.
So then I take that and I say,
if the contents-- because
I know-- remember I saw that thing
where it said is not disabled?
So if the contents--
[Transcript missing]
And this is an example of scripting where
you have to just get kind of creative.
And AppleScript having some nice things
to evaluate with does not end with...
And at the end of that line,
it just said, is not disabled.
If it was successful, you saw earlier,
there was no return.
So I can just say, disabled.
So if it doesn't end with disabled,
then I know that it actually worked.
Then set contents.
of the text field again.
There's a lot of this in AppleScript.
Did we mention it's wordy?
I think I should have
had you guys at work.
That would be good.
So set status test to just user unlocked.
And then, of course,
all the wonderful Ns.
End if, end if, end tell.
And hit enter, and look,
it actually worked.
It verified the syntax.
Isn't that nice when that
works the first time?
So now I can click Build and Go.
And there's my little app.
I can put in my username.
And I forgot to erase that first.
So tech is not marked as disabled.
If we were to use PW Policy,
which was the thing we built last time,
All right,
actually he has a policy already.
So if I go back to my sutech,
mess up his password,
mess up his password.
And then I go back to Keymaster,
user unlocked.
So it actually works.
Despite all everything else.
It's nice because you can
take this then and you can
customize these sort of things.
That's the really basic
hello world version of this.
You can take that then and you can go
further and you can take it and extend,
say, you make it look with Disco let your
search path and build a pick list of
your domains you have that someone
can select different domains and you
can do all sorts of things like that.
Joel Rennich,
The other big thing that came in
AppleScript Studio and I'll just
mention it very briefly is do shell
script has it with administrator
privileges item that you can run.
Joel Rennich, And new intent for
So it just with administrator,
and you can't read that, can you?
Let's see if we can get that one bigger.
Hey, that one actually works.
So I'm typing this out here.
There.
Check that syntax.
Yes, and I can't spell, but luckily--
Oh, I misspelled administrator.
Admin is great.
You guys know what it says.
There was a problem that used
to be in AppleScript Studio,
and that's you had to embed this
stuff in your pseudo commands.
And then if you looked
at the process listing,
it actually was just echoing and piping,
and so you would see your administrator
username and password in the process,
which was a lot of fun.
So now it actually has
authentication and pulls up the
authentication system of the OS.
And you can run your results right there.
And it does not embed your username
and password in the process listing,
which is very important.
Thank you very much.
Hand it back over to Joel now.
Say something about Intel.
Oh, yes.
Intel.
Currently,
and I've discovered this in the ADC labs,
you cannot build a universal
binary on a PowerPC machine.
If you try to build an
AppleScript Studio universal binary,
and specifically
AppleScript Studio binary,
on a PowerPC machine, it will fail.
You can do it on an Intel machine.
We'll build a PowerPC,
but it seems right now in
Xcode 2.1 you cannot make,
and I've tried it on four or five
different machines just to make
sure it wasn't a variable in the
hardware or software of the machines,
but no.
Right now to build a
universal AppleScript binary,
you have to use an Intel Mac.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Josh.
Something useful, right?
Yeah, useful.
Cool.
So in that, we concentrated a little
more on shell last year.
I wanted to put a little
more AppleScript in here.
I do a lot with AppleScript Studio just
for putting faces onto things.
We'll package a software update system.
We'll run a little short here.
So we're going to package a couple
of different software update systems,
and we'll put that onto the site.
So you can take a look at different
ways of doing the same thing.
Josh has some really
cool stuff with that.
So once we get off planes and we actually
have some time in front of a machine,
we'll put more stuff on the site.
We promise.
So this will all be up there.
Here's an example of the
interaction with the shell commands.
That's, again, do shell script.
And like we said, cool,
killer new thing with 10.4 is that
that authentication is done in there.
It's done the right way.
You get the trampoline.
You go from there.
You don't get echoed
into the command line.
So that allows AppleScript Studio apps
now to be much,
much,
much more viable for administration tasks
in your environment because you don't
have to worry about embedding passwords.
You don't have to worry about the
security risk that's involved with that.
All right.
Shell in like about five minutes or less,
right?
We'll cruise here.
We all have some time for
some question and answer.
Oldest scripting language around,
pretty much, right?
Somebody's going to take offense
to that because I'm sure there's
something else that's older.
But it's certainly one of the old guys.
Cool stuff that you can do with shell.
I use shell as my primary language now.
I'm trying to get into Python.
I want to get into Python.
But I just naturally fall into shell.
And when I write in my sleep,
you know when you wake up and you had
that dream of all the codes you wrote?
That I write in shell.
And so that says something to me.
But I've got to expand my horizon.
So that's one of the
things that I've got to do.
And I'll be doing over
the next couple months.
Advantages to shell,
most of us already know it.
If you've ever used a terminal,
you know it.
You've used shell.
Now I can just paste it all into a
command line or paste it all into
a text edit and go from there.
Very portable.
Some disadvantages that we have here
is obviously we don't have a GUI.
So for that,
I usually use AppleScript Studio.
There are some other GUIs out
there that allow you to do that.
Some shell script functions
are very hard to do.
Setting up an SSH connection through
just a shell command requires you
using expect and some other things.
other stuff that really makes
your brain hurt after a while.
Simple mail server backup.
All right, these are a lot of the kinds
of scripts that I write.
They're stuff that we
don't necessarily have.
We've got this beautiful, beautiful,
beautiful open directory
backup now in 10.4 server,
but we don't have a
mail server backup yet.
So here we can use server admin
to shut down the mail system.
Just zip it, tar it, rsync it, ditto it,
whatever you want to do.
Get your mail database
off somewhere else,
and then start it back up.
And this is why I like shell is
because Apple has tried very,
very hard to make sure that all
the functions that you could ever
get in the GUI and then some are
available on the command line.
Knowing that,
you know that you can probably
script anything that you
want through the admin tools.
A very, very powerful, very,
very complete way of administrating
and helping you with stuff.
So now I want to get into a demo.
This is something that
I thought was really cool.
I didn't know that it was
going to work quite as well as
it did when I implemented it.
At my house, as I'm sure most of you do,
I have a couple extra cluster nodes.
I'm a little,
I feel a little embarrassed about that.
But hopefully I get another
seven drives before too long.
But with a cluster node,
if you've used a cluster node,
they can kind of be kind of,
they're a different beast.
You've either got a remote setup,
you've got to do a
FireWire target disk mode,
Netboot, something else like that.
My network,
the cats keep stepping on the gig
switch and pulling out cables.
So I'm not hitting 5.9 up times yet.
And I need to be able to do that.
I need to be able to have a
way to reimage my machines.
And I got very,
very tired of doing all of this
through Netboot Server and having
to have my desktop be a Netboot
Server and that kind of stuff.
So instead I kind of came
up with what I really like,
which,
I'm going to reach into my bag here.
FireWire Drive.
I've got a FireWire Drive and
I've got an OS X system on here.
That OS X system has a startup item.
That startup item goes and formats
the drive in my cluster node.
It then takes a disk
image right off here.
ASRs it down onto that freshly formatted
partition on that cluster node.
When that's all done, it shuts down.
Absolutely no user
interaction whatsoever.
When it comes back up,
I don't know what IP address
it's supposed to have.
It doesn't know what IP address
The image is fully configured and fully
installed to a generic IP address.
So then I take one of my key drives,
my thumb drives.
I slide that in there as it boots up,
and I've got another startup
item that reads in a config file.
IP address, serial number,
all the other configuration
information that I want,
and applies that to the cluster
node as it goes through.
All right.
Now I've got a completely, well,
semi-automated.
I need somebody to plug this in,
use front panel mode, and boot off this.
Once you've done that,
everything else is done for you.
So I need no keyboard.
I need no video.
I need nothing on this
XServe cluster node.
That's shell script.
That's the stuff that
allows me to go home early.
So sub-eth edit,
and I've got a couple of config files.
I can take a quick
look and show you this.
All right.
Pop on here.
And it's a really pretty simple setup.
We go through here.
Look at the drives.
We use DF.
So I've modified this for
both XSERVs and cluster nodes,
depending on how many drives you have.
Go through there.
Parse that out.
Then we go through.
We grab ASR.
We grab an image,
and we image it onto it.
Maybe do some other stuff.
Maybe I set up an Apache 2 folder.
Maybe I kick some other things off,
drop some config files in there.
I then copy a config
startup item onto there.
And once I get that config started,
I'm going to go through there.
item,
it's going to pull from that USB thumb
drive that I pop in when I boot up again,
all right?
All that goes in here,
then that deploys an
image with a startup item,
which is this auto
configuration file here.
This goes through and then
implements all those that it
pulls off of the config file.
So then we can use the
network setup command,
the server setup command,
we can set a serial number,
we can set an IP address,
we can set all of our information here.
Not that we necessarily need yet
another way to automate deployments.
But this can sometimes
come in really handy.
This means that I can get
airdropped into a client location
and I can set up equipment
without worrying about keyboards,
without worrying about monitors,
without worrying about KVM switches,
without worrying about networks.
How many times have you had to
set up a couple machines and the
network guy hasn't come in yet?
That's a pain.
Remote setup is a lot harder when you
don't have a network to work with.
So some cool stuff that you can do.
This, and it's such a simple,
we're probably talking maybe
a hundred lines of shell here,
but does a really nice,
really easy job of going through these.
So back to the slides if we could.
So we're going to also we're
going to post that code on there
so you can take a look at it.
We're going to build everything
live but and they didn't tell me we
had XSERVs here or else except if
I get too close to them it's going
to do some weird harmonics here.
But if I knew that we might
have booted some of them off it.
It's pretty cool to see except it's
not really as graphical as it could
be because there's no monitor.
We're also going to post Cheesy Soup.
Cheesy Soup is a shell
software update system.
It goes out,
it curls down packages from web
servers and then installs them
using the package installer command.
There's some things I'd like to add
to it but I took this and when we
get to the Python section in a few
minutes I took this shell script that
I hadn't touched in probably about a
year and I called up Andrina and I said
Andrina we need some Python demos.
But we also need some examples
of how easy it is to pick
up a new scripting language.
There was silence at that
point on the other phone.
So Andrina has taken this and
translated it into Python.
She's going to walk you through that.
So I'm going to leave the
sexy cool new stuff for her.
We'll post this on the site and
you can compare and contrast
the differences between those.
I also real quick want to mention
interaction with AppleScript.
There are some things that
AppleScript does really,
really well that shell can't even touch.
One of them is interfacing with the user
and allowing them to pick something.
So here's a little 10-line combo.
The bit on top is a shell script.
You run that shell script
and it calls an AppleScript.
That AppleScript pops up a dialog box.
So this is not an
AppleScript Studio application.
This is purely a shell script that
has an AppleScript that joins with it.
We call it an AppleScript.
We call that AppleScript.
It pops up a chooser file.
We pick that file.
We then echo it back to the shell script,
which means we can do
something else with it.
These go as a combo.
You deploy them.
You allow somebody to click on.
You run a cron job that
does that shell script.
We then get an interface with it.
We get user interaction
and pass it back to it.
There's huge amounts of things
that we can do with that.
I know someone that's working with
things like this to allow users to be
kicked off semi-gracefully off a machine.
You know what I mean?
When you're using ARD and you want to
do package updates and push those out,
but maybe they're still in there,
but you want to reboot it because
you've just done a 10.4.1 update.
So this allows some interaction and we
can see if the user is there or not.
So ideas like this really help
you take what you want to do and
really make them into reality.
If you're just coding in one language,
if you're just coding in
one scripting language,
you're really missing
out on a lot of stuff.
I want to let a bias on the table.
I don't think I am worthy of Perl.
I look at Perl, I read Perl,
I own half the O'Reilly
library on how to program Perl.
My brain has been
compacted as I grow older,
and I have yet to get into
Perl as much as I should.
For those of you that do Perl,
you probably love it and you'll
never go anywhere else again.
I'm a shell guy.
I want to change.
I do.
I want modules.
I want a user community.
I want camels on things.
Shell doesn't have a fancy animal logo.
But one of these days.
For those of you who have gone Perl,
you don't go back, right?
Maybe?
Depends on the simplicity, depends on,
well, and so Python's coming up,
so we'll address that in a little bit.
So Perl present on a lot of UNIX systems.
This makes cross-platform,
at least on the UNIX side, really,
really nice.
If you get Perl on Windows,
which is also available,
now you can have a script
that can go anywhere.
All right?
So very, very active developer community.
Lots of advantages to Perl.
The Perl motto is,
there's more than one way to do it.
All right?
And you'll notice that's an
incredibly big disadvantage,
too.
Thank you.
When I do Perl,
I spend more time trying to find the
right module that I want to use or
the right sample code that somebody
else has already written that I want
to borrow instead of actually coding.
So that's one of the things that
I've gotten kind of down on Perl.
For me,
it's got the highest learning curve.
Item number two up there is
entirely personal opinion,
but for me,
it's got the highest learning curve.
It might have the greatest
rewards when you're done,
but for me, it's got the highest learning
curve to get into there.
Simple Perl script here.
Just give you something to chew
on when you read the slides.
Spins off an SSH process, demonizes it.
It's a nice easy way to demonize things.
If you want,
I'm just kind of running in the
background but always there.
I wasn't able to do this
very easily with shell,
so this is something that
I had to do with Perl.
I was actually calling this
from an AppleScript Studio app
that was using shell to call a
Perl command and then come back.
And it wasn't just because I could.
I actually had to for the time.
What I want to show you here,
another example,
This is of a Perl script that
I thought was really cool.
A friend of mine from Purdue University,
they use this.
And what this is, it's a login hook.
And so when you log into a system,
we need to make sure that
we've got some preferences that
are what we're looking for.
We want to make sure that you
have mail preferences that work.
We want to make sure that your Mozilla
defaults are where they should be.
We want to make sure that you have
the user environment that you want.
And when they do this,
when they create new users,
they actually give them preference files.
All right, they've created their
own preference files.
There's no app,
there's no Cocoa behind any of that.
They just create preference
files with the defaults command.
This script runs and it checks for
the presence of that pref file.
It reads out of the defaults database.
It gathers whether something
has been done or not before.
And then we have a bunch of
sub-processes that hinge off that.
If the user's already
been set up for mail,
we don't have to worry about that because
there's already that flag and that plist.
When they deploy a user,
they can preset the plist and they
can say this user doesn't use mail.
This user doesn't use a
network home folder for music.
This user doesn't use Mozilla,
so chop that off.
And now when this login hook runs,
we can customize the login environment
for individual users based upon what
we want them to have or not have.
If we wanted to even
improve this a little more,
we could pull this off a website
or something else like that.
So what this is using,
it's using the defaults command.
And it's just a shell command
or a system call that Perl is
using to go in from in there.
Once we get those variables,
cruise down here towards the bottom and
we can see that we spawn off all these
and we'll do actions based upon that.
This is cool.
Who thought you'd have a
preference file for a shell script?
Just the frameworks that we
already have from within Apple.
We can use these command line commands
that we've already been using.
Who's used defaults just on
its own just to find stuff?
Defaults is a cool command.
Defaults really opens up the
abilities that you have out there.
I use defaults to massage apps
all the time and login hooks.
If an app I don't know,
iChat wants to check your bandwidth when
it goes into a multi-video conference.
I don't want that to happen on behind
a firewall on some other stuff.
I'm really worried about security.
Now I can use defaults to precede that.
And I can override and I can put
that into the preference file.
Here we're using it the other way,
which I think is even cooler,
where we're creating a preference
file and we're pulling from that.
Back to the slides if we could.
So a little Perl script
you can get up from there.
All right.
Python.
Honest to God,
named after the comedy group.
No bones about it.
It's cool language.
Any language that's named after
Monty Python is all right by me.
Mostly because it opens up a wealth
of opportunities for naming things.
I think all the good script
names have been taken,
so now we're just into the realm
of lunacy as we go through things.
So definitely Python contributes to that,
and I like that.
Python is on most UNIX systems,
the newer ones.
It's a newer language, growing a lot,
very active developer community.
Some people have
defected from Perl to it.
Other people like it better.
Some people start with Python because
it's a little easier to get into.
Very easy to read.
It's very easy to go back to code
that you've developed before,
even if you were bad
and didn't comment it.
Python is on most UNIX scripts,
the newer ones.
It's a newer language, growing a lot,
very active developer community.
Some people start with
Python because it's a newer language,
growing a lot,
very active developer community.
Python disadvantages.
It's not still installed
by default on some systems,
so you've got to be careful
when you're deploying.
Some people still think it's new.
I think it's 10 years or so
that Python's been around.
But in the world of UNIX,
that's just a little baby still.
So not quite as easy as
shell or AppleScript,
so I wouldn't necessarily consider
it your first entry into scripting if
you wanted to get your feet just kind
of dangling in and get a little wet.
Here's a real quick simple Python script.
We import an OS module so
that we can use OS calls,
and then we're going to actually
do a system call to a disk util,
and we're going to list out drives.
And then we would process this from here.
So you can see it's still
pretty easy to understand.
It's not nearly as
stupid simple as shell,
and it's not nearly as
English syntax as AppleScript.
So it's kind of a little more towards
the programming language side of things,
but that does lend itself
to other opportunities.
If it's a Python script,
you gotta call it something cute.
So now we have Shrubbery
Soup software update system.
This is written in Python.
I'm gonna bring Andrina Kelly up here.
Andrina helps also with the site.
If you've read some of the articles,
you might see some from her.
All right, so like I said,
I called her up about a month
and a half ago and I said,
"Andrina,
We've got to do some
Python in this session.
Python's cool.
It's becoming exciting and new.
I don't know squat about Python.
I need somebody that does.
And I think, Andrina, that's you.
So very gracious, very wonderful.
She was able to go through and
she was able to start from scratch
with Python and create something.
So I hand it over to Andrina.
All right.
Thanks a lot, Joel.
So what we've got here is--
you'll have to excuse my voice.
I'm losing my voice today,
but we'll carry on.
The other scripts,
if we'd seen them earlier on today,
they tend to use curl.
They're HTTP.
I want to do something
completely different,
seeing as, you know,
I had to learn something
completely different.
So we're going to use FTP instead.
Now, the other thing about this
script is it allows us to
pass a host name at execution.
So generally,
this script can be used anywhere.
You're not going to need to
modify the body of this script
if you're going to be using it.
You put in your name of your
FTP server you want to connect to,
and then it's going to be interactive
throughout to actually download
the things from your FTP server.
So we'll just go through
this nice and quickly.
The first part we've got here is
importing some of our modules.
There's a selection of
things we're importing.
We can import an entire module
or just a portion of our module,
like we're doing with the FTP here.
Thank you.
We've created our own definition.
I've created this just to make the
actual download portion easier later on.
I'm not going to get into
this in much detail right now,
but you'll see it further down and I'll
explain what we're doing down there.
Now this arguments part here.
The argument is what we passed
when we executed the script.
So our argument is our host name.
You can do it to your local host if you
just want to play with it and create
an FTP server on your local machine.
Or it could be halfway across the world.
It's an FTP server.
You can do whatever you want.
And then we're going to keep on setting
our FTP to keep our host name in there.
And we're going to
connect to our FTP server.
This is the first part.
Now, this is an anonymous login
that I've created here.
You can pass arguments one,
arguments two, if you wanted to use a
username and password.
Just for simplicity,
we're going to go anonymous.
And the next thing, of course,
you want to know what's
on your FTP server.
There are other commands within FTP.
You can change directories.
But we're just going to be looking at
the actual root of our FTP server here.
And we're going to retrieve the lines.
So we're just going to get
a list of everything that is
present on our FTP server.
And this is where we go interactive.
Now, for the user, they need to know what
we're going to be doing.
Otherwise,
they just get this prompt and they
have no clue what to put in there.
So we've got a little bit of text
that will spit out at them saying,
you can only download one file at a time,
but just keep on putting them in.
And we'll go from there.
And we start off with our while loop.
Now, the loop here is an infinite loop,
rather appropriate.
And it will keep on going until it
reaches a condition which will fail.
So if we just continue on,
we're just going to start out
with the try statement here,
and we're going to ignore
these two if statements.
So the first thing it's going to do is
it's going to ask us for the file name.
So it's going to prompt the user again,
enter the name of the
file you want to download,
and it's going to accept it as raw input.
So your user's going to
put in the file name,
and great, it's going to match up with
something on the server,
and it's going to download it.
Which brings us down to--
So this is where we're using
this handle download definition
that we created earlier.
So it's just making this a lot
neater and cleaner to read down here.
There are some strangenesses when
I was trying to do this interactively.
It just wasn't working very nicely,
and when I created that definition,
everything went smooth as butter,
so we just kept that in there.
We're going to close out,
and then because it's a--we're going
to then use the OS system call.
It's going to expand the file
that we've just downloaded.
Everything that we're going to keep on
our FTP server is going to be tarred up.
If you're going to keep package files
on your FTP server and download them,
it gets into a right mess because,
of course, the package is folders.
You all know this, so it's fine.
And we're going to expand it and
get rid of the tar file because
we don't want mess left around.
And being in the spirit
of loop back to beginning.
And it's going to say, hey,
what do you want to do now?
If our user is a very bad typer
and can't type for their life
and put in the wrong file name,
part of the try clause here
is also an accept statement.
Right down at the very bottom
here is our accept and just
reminding our user politely that
they need to learn how to type.
So once we've reminded our user that they
can't type and they need to try again,
we're going to go back.
And this is where we can
run into our if statements.
If they've forgotten by this point,
or it's rolled off the
top of their screen,
what their list of files are that they
can collect from their FTP server,
you can just simply enter in list.
This is the same command that we had
back here at the beginning when we
were getting our first initial list.
We're just repeating it,
but just so that it can be interactive
with the user so they can be reminded.
And once they've got everything,
they're going to enter queue.
That'll quit out of the loop,
or enter queue.
And not quite out of the loop yet,
but it'll actually quit
out of the FTP server.
It'll close the FTP connection.
And here we're going to get
into the OS System Call now.
I've used OS System Call for a
couple things here that could be
done with other Python commands.
I've done this just because I started
learning Python a month and a half ago.
Obviously,
I'm going to go back to this once
I've had a bit more experience.
I'm going to go back
and change things up,
make it better,
throw some more Python stuff in there.
But this particular one is going to
be finding in the local directory,
it's going to find everything with
the--anything that we've downloaded
and expanded with the .pkg on the end.
And it's going to output
it to a file for us.
And this OS.SystemCall here is
always going to have to stay in
OS.SystemCall because there's no
such thing as an installer in Python.
So we're going to read for each line that
we've just created in that PacMan file,
and we're going to install from there.
If you're used to using
installer and command line,
you're going to know that
installer needs to run as root.
We could have put a root check
in at the beginning of this.
I haven't done it.
And up to this point,
you actually don't need to be root.
So you can just go and
download all these packages.
And at this point,
it'll just error out of the
script and say you don't have
the right permissions to do this.
Your packages are still
going to be there.
They're still going to
be ready to install.
And then you can either come and do it
yourself later or just leave them there.
Or even if you just
wanted to bring them down,
but you actually wanted to
install them on another machine,
you can just go and
download all these packages.
just don't get to do it.
And once you've done that,
you've made some strawberry soup.
All is good.
You've got some excellent
culinary progress.
And we're going to break out of the loop.
And this is what puts
this out of the script.
And that's about it.
Hopefully we all run out of names because
we're making so many good scripts,
right?
All the good names are taken.
I'm just going to tell you that now.
All the good script names are taken.
You've got to go with the silly stuff.
You'll be okay.
A couple of links for more information,
and then we might do a little
bit of wrap-up here and hopefully
maybe take one or two questions,
but we're really,
really running tight on time.
So, this is the WDC site.
You've seen this before.
Okay.